"Multi-robot collision avoidance methods can generally be classified into two categories: centralized methods and decentralized methods. A centralized method usually provides a center server to determine each robot’s action using an optimization algorithm after collecting all the relevant information, which has been widely applied in many applications, such as task allocation [5], formation control [6] and object transportation [7,8]. These centralized methods assume that the actions of every robot are determined by a central server with knowledge of every robots’ intents, like initial states and goals, and their surrounding environments. Based on this knowledge, the central server would compute collision avoidance actions by planning optimal paths for every robot simultaneously. Note that centralized methods can generally guarantee safety, completeness and approximate optimality. However, these methods are fragile and difficult to scale to systems with a large number of robots, which is mainly due to the following reasons. Firstly, it becomes more and more challenging for centralized control and scheduling when the number of robots increases. Secondly, a reliable synchronized communication is required between the central server and every robot, which is either uneconomical or not feasible for large-scale systems. Thirdly, the centralized system is vulnerable to various failures, like disturbances of the central server, communication between robots or robots’ motors and sensors. Furthermore, these centralized methods are inapplicable when multiple robots are deployed in an unknown and unstructured environment, especially in a human–robot coexisting environment.\n---\nExisting work on agent-level decentralized collision avoidance can be further divided into three categories, i.e., reaction-based, trajectory-based and learning-based. In particular, a reaction-based agent-level decentralized method specifies one-step interaction rules for the current geometric configuration. Velocity Obstacles (VO) [9] are widely used to specify such geometric configurations, which require positions and velocities of other robots to induce the VO for the selection of collision-free motion. Optimal reciprocal collision avoidance (ORCA) [10] is one of the most successful VO-based approaches, which guarantees collision-free trajectories except for densely packed conditions. Specifically, ORCA provides a sufficient condition for multiple robots to avoid collisions with each other in a short time horizon, and can easily be scaled to large systems with many robots. ORCA and its variants [11,12] have been widely used in crowd simulation and multi-agent systems. However, these methods use heuristics to construct parametric collision avoidance models, which are tedious to be tuned for satisfactory performance. These methods also require the perfect sensing of surrounding robots’ positions, velocities and shapes, which is difficult to achieve in real-world applications. Extensions in [13,14,15] require communication networks to share robots’ positions and velocities, which hurt the robustness and flexibility of the system. By using a motion caption system as the global localization infrastructure, Zhou et al. [16] only require positions of surrounding robots using their buffered Voronoi cells. ORCA has also been extended to non-holonomic robots. ORCA-DD [17] doubles the effective radius of each robot to ensure collision-free and smooth paths for robots under differential constraints, which has troubles in narrow passages and unstructured environments. NH-ORCA [18,19] enables a differential drive robot to follow the desired speed command within an error, which only slightly increases the effective radius of a robot and outperforms ORCA-DD in collision avoidance.\n---\nOn the other hand, a trajectory-based agent-level decentralized method explicitly evaluates the future joint states of robots by anticipating other robots’ future trajectories. A subclass of non-cooperative methods [20,21] first estimates predicted paths of other robots, then plans a collision-free path for the ego robot. However, these predicted paths usually mark a large portion of the space to be unsafe in crowded environments, which leads to the freezing robot problem [22]. To overcome this problem, a subclass of cooperative methods [23,24,25,26] was proposed to take into account the interactions between robots. A cooperative trajectory-based method first infers other robots’ intents, computes jointly feasible paths of all nearby robots, then chooses paths with better quality, e.g., shorter time for every robot to reach their corresponding goals. However, it is hard to estimate other robots’ intents and computationally expensive to generate paths for every robot. Furthermore, the difference between the predicted path and the actual path of each robot grows greater when the time increases, which requires a rapid update for the method.\n---\nDecentralized collision avoidance approaches discussed above may require extensive computational efforts or a set of assumptions that may not be met in practice. These approaches also involve a lot of parameters that need to be adjusted manually rather than being able to learn automatically from past experience, which makes them harder to handle unpredictable situations. Learning-based approaches try to optimize a parameterized policy for collision avoidance from experiences in various environments. Deep neural networks have been widely applied in the supervised learning paradigm to train a collision avoidance policy that maps sensor input to the robot’s control commands to navigate a robot in environments with static obstacles [27,28]. Giusti et al. [29] apply neural networks to classify the input color images and determines actions that would keep the quadrotor on the trail. To obtain the large number of training samples, some hikers were equipped with three head-mounted cameras and were required to walk on the mountain path to collect the data. Gandhi et al. [30] create one of the largest crash datasets for drones to train unmanned aerial vehicles to fly. Tai et al. [31] propose a hierarchical structure that combines the decision-making process with a convolutional neural network. Pfeiffer et al. [32] propose a model that is capable to learn complex mappings directly from the 2D laser range results to corresponding control commands of a mobile indoor robot. However, these methods require a massive labeled dataset for the training and suffer from the distribution mismatch between the training dataset and the testing environment, which limits their applications in the real world. Some of them are just able to avoid simple static obstacles in empty corridors.\n---\nOn the other hand, deep reinforcement learning (DRL) approaches have achieved significant success in many challenging tasks, such as Go game [33,34], video games [35,36] and robotics [37,38]. In contrast, a DRL-based method is able to learn from a large number of trials and corresponding feedbacks (rewards). In order to learn sophisticated control strategies through DRL, the robot needs to interact with the training environment for a long time to accumulate experience about the consequences of taking different actions in different states. However, collecting such interactive data in the real world is very expensive, time-consuming and sometimes impossible due to security issues [39]. Inspired by VO-based approaches, Chen et al. [40] provide a DRL-based method to train an agent-level collision avoidance policy, where the network still requires the expensive movement data of the ego robot, its neighbors and moving obstacles as its inputs. In their extension [41], multiple perception tasks, like segmentation, recognition and tracking, are performed on multiple sensors to estimate the movement data of nearby robots and moving obstacles. However, these perception tasks require extensive computational efforts for online utilization. Notice that, though agent-level methods have the disadvantage of requiring a precise and complex front-end perception procedure, they have the advantages of adaptable to various sensors, easy to be trained in simulation environments and easy to be deployed to a real robot.\n---\nIn this paper, we propose a decentralized map-based DRL approach for multi-robot collision avoidance in a distributed and communication-free environment. Compared to agent-level [41] and sensor-level [43] methods, we use the egocentric local grid map of a robot to represent the environmental information around it including its shape and observable appearances of other robots and obstacles, which can be easily generated by using multiple sensors or sensor fusion. Then we apply the distributed proximal policy optimization (DPPO) algorithm to train a convolutional neural network that directly maps three frames of egocentric local grid maps and the robot’s relative local goal positions into low-level robot control commands. Our map-based method has the advantages of both agent-level and sensor-level methods, the map-based approach is adaptable to various sensors, easy to be trained in simulation environments, more robust to noisy sensor data, does not require robots’ movement data and a precise and complex front-end perception procedure, and considers sizes and shapes of related robots, which make it to be more efficient, robust and easier to be deployed to real robots. We first train the neural network in a specified simulator of multiple mobile robots using DPPO, where a two-stage curriculum learning strategy for two scenarios is used to improve the performance. Then we deploy the trained model to real robots to perform collision avoidance in their navigation without tedious parameter tuning. We evaluate the approach with multiple scenarios both in the simulator and on four differential-drive mobile robots in the real world. Both qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our approach is efficient and outperforms existing DRL-based approaches in many indicators. We also conduct ablation studies showing the positive effects of using egocentric grid maps and multi-stage curriculum learning.\n---\nWe propose a map-based DRL multi-robot collision avoidance approach in a communication-free environment, where egocentric local grid maps are used to represent the environmental information around the robot, which can be easily generated by using multiple sensors or sensor fusion.\n---\nWe train the collision avoidance policy in multiple simulation environments using DPPO, which can be deployed to real robots without tedious parameter tuning, where the network considers egocentric local grid maps as inputs and directly outputs low-level robot control commands.\n---\nWe conduct ablation studies that specify the positive effects of using egocentric grid maps and multi-stage curriculum learning.\n---\nThe rest of this paper is organized as follows. The formulation of multi-robot collision avoidance is presented in Section 2. The applied DRL algorithm for multi-robot collision avoidance based on egocentric local grid maps is described in Section 3. Section 4 and Section 5 describe the simulation experimental results and the real-world experiments respectively, followed by conclusions in Section 6.\n---\n relative to its starting pose and a local goal position \n---\n does not need to have full observation of the environment. Then without assuming perfect sensing, we only need a partial observation here. On the other hand, as discussed in Section 1, we also do not directly apply raw sensor data as inputs of our collision avoidance policy. Instead, we use the egocentric local grid map \n---\n denotes the grid map generator specified by parameters \n---\n to generate the egocentric local grid map \n---\nNote that intents and movement data of other robots are not required here. However, we can estimate motion information, i.e., velocities, accelerations and paths, of other robots implicitly from consecutive frames of egocentric local grid maps. We can also estimate ego robot’s historical trajectory and velocities, i.e., linear velocities and angular velocities, from consecutive frames of its local goals and offset orientation angles. In particular, we specify the observation of the robot i at time t as \n---\n consecutive frames of such observation states as inputs of the collision avoidance policy \n---\n based on m consecutive frames of the observation. In this paper, we denote action \n---\n is the angular velocity that the robot i needs to perform until the next time step \n---\n, i.e., observable appearances of the obstacles, in the environment. In addition, \n---\nWe begin this section by describing the key ingredients of the distributed proximal policy optimization (DPPO) reinforcement learning algorithm for multiple robots. Then, we describe the details on the network architecture and the training process for the multi-robot collision avoidance policy. Finally, we elaborate on the training protocols and scenarios used to optimize the policy.\n---\nAs discussed in Section 2, our formulation of the multi-robot collision avoidance problem can be considered as a partially observable decision-making problem under uncertainty, which can be specified as a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP) problem [45] and solved using reinforcement learning algorithms. In specific, a POMDP problem consists of 6 tuples \n---\n and O is the observation probability function that describes the probability of observing \n---\nIn the following, we describe the details of our map-based approach for multi-robot collision avoidance, including the observation space, the action space and the reward function.\n---\nAs specified in Section 2, the observation \n---\n for the corresponding robot i. We use the latest three frames of observations \n---\n as inputs of the neural network for the collision avoidance policy. In this paper, the egocentric local grid map \n---\n is generated by a 2D laser scan with 180 degrees horizontal Field of View (FOV), which encodes robot i’s shape and observable appearances of nearby obstacles and other robots. Note that egocentric local grid maps are directly constructed from costmaps (http://wiki.ros.org/costmap_2d) in robotics, which can be easily generated by using various sensors or sensor fusion. The relative local goal position \n---\n represents the change of the robot i’s orientation relative to its starting pose. Notice that motion information of other robots can be implicitly extracted from consecutive frames of egocentric local grid maps, and the historical trajectory and velocities of ego robot can be implicitly extracted from consecutive frames of its local goals and offset orientation angles. There is a trade-off between the accuracy of the estimation and the efficiency of the policy. In our experiments, satisfactory performance is achieved when three frames of observations are considered as inputs of the network.\n---\nEgocentric local grid maps are constructed from costmaps, which have been widely applied in robot navigation [46,47] and can be generated from various sensors or sensor fusion with strong noise resistance. We first receive a local costmap w.r.t. the robot i, then we can construct the egocentric local grid map \n---\n to represent the surrounding environment. In particular, cells of value 0 denote the obstacles and other robots around the robot. Cells of value 255 denote the free space, cells of value 100 denote the undetected place that is unknown for the robot and cells of value 200 denote the place that is occupied by the robot itself. An example of the training environment in the simulator is illustrated in Figure 1a. The generated egocentric local grid map for the robot 0 in this example is shown in Figure 1c.\n---\nFigure 1. (a) A training environment of the simulator, where blue digital circles represent the target positions of robots with the corresponding number, red lines specify the straight paths from the current position to the target for robots and other black pixels represent various obstacles. (b) The local view of the environment for the robot 0. (c) The egocentric local grid map generated from the local view using a 2D laser sensor.\n---\nIn this paper, we convert the egocentric local grid map to a gray image, where values of pixels are divided by 255 for normalization, to ease the set up of the network. Without loss of generality, we identity a grid map with its corresponding gray image in the paper.\n---\n of a differential robot i consists of a linear velocity \n---\nThe goal of the agent is to maximize its cumulative reward in reinforcement learning and the reward function specifies what the agent needs to achieve but not how to achieve it. In our long-distance multi-robot collision avoidance task, the objective is to minimize the mean arrival time for each robot arriving its local goal under the collision-free constraint, where the reward signal is often weak and sparse unless the local goal has been reached or a collision has occurred. To alleviate this problem, we apply the reward shaping technique [48] by adding an extra reward signal \n---\n to guide the robot to move towards its local goal.\n---\n specifies the penalty when the robot goes far of its local goal. We define \n---\n denotes the reward when the robot arrives its local goal, i.e., the distance between the robot and its local goal is less than \n---\n for each robot i, which specifies the probability of mapping the latest three frames of observations \n---\nIn the following, we introduce details of our DPPO algorithm, including the training process, the network architecture and the usage of multi-stage curriculum learning.\n---\nWe implement our DPPO algorithm through the centralized learning decentralized execution paradigm, in which homogeneous learning agents sample simultaneously from multiple simulation environments to train the same shared neural network that represents their collision avoidance policy. Algorithm 1 specifies the training process that samples trajectories by executing the policy in parallel and updates the policy with the sampled data. The policy \n---\n is trained with these collected experiences by all robots simultaneously. Every robot exploits the same policy to generate trajectories in corresponding environments. An episode for robots running in an environment is terminated, when every robot reaches its target or encounters a collision with an obstacle or another robot. Then the environment is also reset. In specific, each robot i receives its own inputs \n---\n, i.e., the latest three frames of observations, at each time step t and executes the action \n---\nThe policy network for the stochastic policy \n---\n and the value network for the state-value function \n---\n epochs (ll. 34–37). Finally, we clear the buffer and recollect the experience used for training (l. 38). The value network has the same architecture as the policy network, except the last layer is modified to only output the value of \n---\n, i.e., one unit with a linear activation. Note that both the policy network and the value network are updated independently and their parameters are not shared, which due to the fact that using two separate networks often leads to better performance in practice.\n---\nThe architecture of our policy network for the collision avoidance policy \n---\n is considered as the input of the network, which consists of three parts, i.e., \n---\n, three consecutive frames of egocentric local grid maps, \n---\n, three consecutive frames of relative local goal positions and \n---\nFigure 2. The architecture of the policy network. The input of the network is \n---\n, which consists of three frames of egocentric local grid maps and three frames of local goal positions and offset orientation angles. The network computes the mean of the action, which consists of a linear velocity and an angular velocity. The resulting action is sample from a Gaussian distribution.\n---\nThe network first produces feature maps for grid maps, i.e., \n---\n. The output value of the 2D convolutional layer \n---\n is the output tensor of the network layer l, N is a batch size, C denotes a number of channels, H is a height of input planes in pixels and W is width in pixels. The output value of the 2D max pooling layer \n---\n convolves 64 two-dimensional filters (Conv2D) with kernel \n---\n and stride 1 over the three grid maps, and applies ReLU nonlinearities followed by a max-pooling layer \n---\n convolves 128 two-dimensional filters with kernel \n---\n and stride 1, and again followed by a max-pooling layer \n---\n convolves 256 two-dimensional filters with kernel \n---\n and stride 1, and again followed by a max-pooling layer \n---\n and stride 2. Then these feature maps are converted to a 512 dimensional vector by a fully-connected layer \n---\n with 512 units. The fully-connected layer \n---\nThe network also projects three frames of local goals and offset orientation angles, i.e., \n---\n, to a 9 dimensional vector. The network combines both vectors and feeds them to two fully-connected layers \n---\n with 512 units. Then the network applies a fully-connect layer \n---\n is the mean of the angular velocity. The entire policy network \n---\nwhere ⊕ is the concatenation operator. At last, the output of the network, i.e., the resulting action, is sampled from the Gaussian distribution \n---\nThe value network has the same architecture as the policy network, except the last layer is modified to only output the value \n---\nCurriculum learning [54] aims to improve learning performance by designing appropriate curriculums for progressive learners from simple to difficult. Elman et al. [55] put forward the idea that a curriculum of progressively harder tasks could significantly accelerate a neural network’s training. Curriculum learning has recently become prevalent in the machine learning field, which assumes that the curriculum learning can improve the convergence speed of the training process and find a better local minimum value than the existing solvers. The formal expression of this idea can be found in [54]. The corresponding training distribution at step \n---\n space with eight robots and four obstacles, where the target position of each robot is randomly generated within the range of 2 m to 4 m from its starting point. Figure 3b illustrates environments that randomly place robots on a circle with a random radius, a.k.a., circular scenario, which helps the robot to be able to interact with other robots. Environments in the circular scenario randomly place eight robots on a circle with a varying radius in the range of 1.8 m to 3.0 m. These rich and complex training environments enable robots to explore their high-dimensional observation space and improve the quality and robustness of the learned policy. Combining with the centralized learning and the decentralized execution mechanism, the collision avoidance policy is effectively optimized at each iteration over these environments.\n---\nFigure 3. Two scenarios used to collect collision avoidance experiences for multiple robots, where the blue digital circles represent the target goals of the robot with the corresponding number, red lines specify the straight paths from the current position to the target for robots and other black pixels represent various obstacles. Blue boxes on the right illustrate egocentric local grid maps of each robot.\n---\nIn this section, we evaluate our map-based multi-robot obstacle avoidance approach in various simulations environments. We first specify details of our implementation including the customized simulator, hyper-parameters, hardware and software for training the networks. Then, we quantitatively evaluate the performance of our map-based multi-robot navigation policy in various simulation scenarios and compare it with other existing approaches. For the specific performance of the robots in the experiments, please refer to the demonstration video at https://youtu.be/KOb1q23L7-U.\n---\nSensor-level policy: the policy generated by the DRL based approach proposed by Long et al. [42] and Fan et al. [43]. Different from our approach, their network considers the original 2D laser data (in a 1D form) as the input and uses 1D convolutions to handle the input. For a fair comparison, we trained this DRL-based approach in the same training process, i.e., the two-stage training process, as our approach. The learning curve of its training process is shown in Figure 4b, where we denote their approach as “Sensor-level” and our approach as “Map-based”. Note that our approach converges with a higher expected return in the training process.\n---\nMap-based policy: the policy generated by our approach in this article, which considers egocentric local grid maps as inputs.\n---\n is updated according to the velocity motion model of differential wheels:\n---\n is the interval time of velocity control, v and \n---\n denote the linear velocity and the angular velocity, respectively. At each time step t, we intercept the world map according to the last pose of the robot i to generate the draft of the egocentric grid map \n---\n. Then, we estimate the resulting egocentric local grid map \n---\nBoth the policy network and the value network are implemented in TensorFlow (https://www.tensorflow.org/) and trained with the Adam optimizer [52]. A computer with an i7-9900 CPU and an Nvidia Titan RTX GPU is used for the training. It takes around 12 hours to run about 900 iterations in Algorithm 1 to train the networks for converging in all the training scenarios. As specified in Table 2, the learning rate \n---\nThe learning policy can be executed online on robots in both the simulation and the real world in real-time. In the simulation, it takes 2 ms on the GPU for the policy network to compute new actions for 8 robots. After deploying the policy to robots in the real work, it takes about 25 ms on an Nvidia Jetson TX2 for policy network to compute new actions and takes about 30 ms to generate egocentric local grid maps from the 2D laser scanning data.\n---\nNotice that we only use environments from the random scenario and the circular scenario to train the networks for multi-robot collision avoidance in our map-based DPPO approach. We demonstrate the generalization of our approach by showing that the learned policy performs well to a series of unseen scenarios and also performs well for heterogeneous robots after introducing robots with different sizes and shapes in the training.\n---\n: the average linear velocity for every robot during the navigation.\n---\nIn addition to the generalization and the navigation efficiency, the learned policy is also preferred to be stable and robust to model uncertainty and input noises. We are to verify the robustness of our learned policy by multiple experiments in this section.\n---\nAs discussed in Section 1, the map-based approach can be easily deployed to robots with different sensors. Here we illustrate such an example by applying the approach to a robot with only a depth camera. Since our customized simulator lacks 3D information, we choose Gazebo, a more realistic 3D simulator, to test the generalization ability of our model. In specific, we implement a differential robot with a depth camera with a 120-degree horizontal FOV and 640 × 480 resolution in Gazebo. We are to convert the point cloud data generated by the depth camera into corresponding grid maps. We first down-sample the point cloud data to the resolution of the map, remove outliers, refine the result by eliminating the ceiling, then generate the grid map from the bird’s eye view of the resulting point cloud. Figure 13 illustrates the procedure of how to generate such a grid map from the point cloud data. An example of the Using the generated grid map, we can construct the corresponding egocentric local grid map, which can later be used to train the collision avoidance policy by our map-based approach. Figure 14 shows the performance of Map-based policy using the depth camera in environments with 8 randomly placed obstacles. Note that the robot successfully avoids all obstacles and reaches its target the depth camera only.\n---\nFigure 13. (a) An environment contains a robot (green) with a depth camera and randomly placed obstacles (white) in Gazebo. (b) Point cloud data generated by the depth camera with 120-degree FOV. (c) The grid map generated from the point cloud data.\n---\nWe deploy the Map-based policy to four robots to perform multi-robot obstacle avoidance in the real world. As shown in Figure 15, each robot is based on TurtleBot 2 with Kobuki base. Then the robot has a circular shape with a radius of 0.17 m. The laser sensor used in each robot is either a Hokuyo UTM-30LX 2D LiDAR or a Hokuyo URG-04LX 2D LiDAR (which has a lower price). The details of the Hokuyo 2D LiDAR sensors are listed in Table 4. All of these sensors provide a 180-degree FOV observation of the surrounding environment in front of the robot. The robot applies an NVIDIA Jetson TX2 as its computing platform. In specific, we implemented four versions of such a robot, where two of them are equipped with Hokuyo UTM-30LX 2D LiDARs and two of them are Hokuyo URG-04LX 2D LiDARs.\n---\nIn experiments, the relative local goals of the robot are provided by a particle filter based on a state estimator. The egocentric local grid map is constructed from the laser data, which has a fixed size 6.0 × 6.0 m and the resolution 0.1 m at each time step. A wooden shell is placed on the top of the mobile platform of the robot, which enables robots to detect each other. We also use paper boxes and luggages to act as static and dynamic obstacles in tests. The output of the trained policy network is directly used to control the robot, that is, the range of robot linear velocity and angular velocity are \n---\nFigure 16. (a) The basic static scenario, where some paper boxes are places as static obstacles to block the robot’s path from its starting position to its target. (b) The extended static scenario, where two obstacles are added to the front and the rear of the narrow opening of a line of obstacles. (c) The basic dynamic scenario, where cardboard appears suddenly in the moving path of the robot. (d) The extended dynamic scenario, where cardboard appears suddenly and a luggage moves across the path of the robot. Subfigures on the left show the trajectories and the grid maps of the robot. Subfigures on the right show the environments in the real world, which correspond to situations that the robot is at the place of the red circle in corresponding left figures. Yellow bounding boxes in the figures denote corresponding dynamic obstacles in the environments.\n---\nWe first introduce a real-world swap scenario where two robots are required to move towards each other and swap their positions. Figure 17a illustrates the performance of the robots in this scenario, in which both robots successfully reach their targets without collision. Next, we extend the two-robot cross scenario by randomly placing some static obstacles to increase the difficulty. Figure 17b illustrates the performance of the robots in the new scenario, in which both robots still successfully reach their targets without collision. Figure 17b also shows that the robot can automatically wait for a moment and avoid the narrow opening when it observes that the other robot is going through the opening. Then, we further extend the scenario by asking a pedestrian to walk across the paths of both robots. Figure 17c illustrates the performance of the robots in this extended scenario, in which both robots adaptively slow down their speed and wait for the pass of the pedestrian before they each their targets successfully. Notice that pedestrians are not introduced in the training procedure of the collision avoidance policy in our approach and the shape and dynamic characteristics of pedestrians are quite different from other robots and static obstacles. However, the learned policy still performs well in the scenario with pedestrians. Later, we extend the two-robot scenario to involve three robots. We introduce the three-robot circle scenario where three robots are placed on a circle and their targets are set at opposite positions on the circle. Figure 17d illustrates the performance of the robots in this scenario, in which all robots successfully reach their targets without collision. At last, we extend these scenarios to involve four robots. Figure 18 illustrates the performances of four robots in these scenarios, in which all robots still successfully reach their targets without collision. In the four-robot cross scenario shown in Figure 18a, two groups of robots cross each other and reach their respective target points. Figure 18b shows the experimental results of the four-robot circle scenario, where four robots are placed on a circle and their targets are set at opposite positions. In order to further prove the generalization ability of our model in more complex environments, we added three static obstacles or two pedestrians to the four-robot circle scenario. The experimental results are shown in Figure 18c,d. All robots can reach their respective target points without collision in such a dynamic and crowded environment.\n---\nIn specific, we present a hierarchical architecture [56] for long-range navigation that combines A* path planning [60] with the DRL-based collision avoidance policy generated by our map-based DPPO approach, where the short-range DRL-based motion planner directly maps egocentric local grid maps to robot’s control commands in terms of intermediate goals provided by the global A* path planner. In the navigation procedure, each local goal position is selected as a position that is 3 m away from the robot on the global planned path.\n---\nThis navigation system with the DRL-based collision avoidance policy is evaluated in environments with long corridors (about 27 m). We use the open source SLAM algorithm Cartographer [61] to build a global static map of the environment in advance. The global static map is used for particle filter-based positioning and path planning, which provide our DRL-based collision avoidance module with the pose of the local target point relative to the robot. Figure 19 illustrates such an environment with its grid map and the trajectory generated by the navigation system, where the robot can successfully go through the long corridor while avoiding static obstacles and dynamic pedestrians.\n---\nFigure 19. The long-range navigation scenario, where the navigation system with our DRL-based collision avoidance policy to go through the long corridor while avoiding static obstacles and dynamic pedestrians. The upper picture denotes the grid map of the entire environment map and the trajectory of the robot, and the square around the robot represents its egocentric local grip map. The lower pictures specify situations of the corresponding number in the real world when the robot is at the corresponding dotted circles in the map.\n---\nIn this paper, we propose a map-based DPPO approach for multi-robot collision avoidance in distributed and communication-free environments. We use the egocentric local grid map of a robot to represent the environmental information around it including its shape and observable appearances of other robots and obstacles, which can be easily generated by using multiple sensors or sensor fusion. Then we apply DPPO to train a convolutional neural network that directly maps three frames of egocentric local grid maps and the robot’s relative local goal positions into low-level robot control commands. We apply a two stage training procedure to train networks using environments from the random scenario and the circular scenario.\n---\nWe evaluate the learned collision avoidance policy in multiple simulation scenarios and compare it with related work. The experimental results show the outstanding performance of our approach in terms of success rate, extra time as well as average linear velocity. We also evaluate our learned policy from different perspectives, including the generalization to unseen scenarios, the efficiency for navigation and the robustness to the agent density and to the robots’ various shapes and dynamics. These experiments show that our map-based approach outperforms others in many indicators. Then, we deploy the trained model to real robots to evaluate its performance in various real-world scenarios, including environments with static and dynamic obstacles, multiple robots and dynamic pedestrians. These experiments show that our approach is efficient and easy to deploy to real robots, and performs well in the real world. At last, we integrate our DRL-based collision avoidance policy into the navigation framework and test it in long-range navigation. The experiment shows that the navigation system can successfully lead the robot to go through a long corridor while avoiding static obstacles and dynamic pedestrians."